# CampusAlert
#dependecy in pubspec.yaml, run at pubspec.yaml directory
flutter pub get


## Development
It is highly recommended that you use Visual Studio Code to do developments. See this for setting up the environment: https://codelabs.developers.google.com/codelabs/flutter-codelab-first#1

0. Before anything else, make sure you have Flutter SDK: https://docs.flutter.dev/get-started/install
1. Run `flutter channel beta`
2. Run `flutter upgrade`
3. Run `flutter pub upgrade`
- NOTE: every time someone adds a new package, you may need to run this
4. Run `flutter devices` to see what devices are available to you
5. IMPORTANT: When modifying code related to database.dart, make sure to run the following to ensure build_runner is generating up-to-date code
```sh
dart run build_runner build
dart run build_runner watch
```
JUST AS IMPORTANT: When you finish writing your database code, MAKE SURE build_runner HAS NO [WARNING] ON THE SIDE! (You should only see [INFO]) DO NOT IGNORE THEM.

As mentioned inside the file, do not modify `schemas/database.g.dart`. This is auto-generated by the `build` and `watch` commands you ran above.

6. To run the app in debug mode, run `flutter run -d <the device you want to run>`. It should be in debug mode by default.

Visual Studio Code plug-in can make the above process a lot easier. It includes feature such as starting the app with a single button press, and hot reload and inspector page on the fly.

## Drift oddities

Drift is the library used to access a local SQLite3 database. It's worth noting that it does a lot of sketchy things and auto-generate "row classes" which won't be declared anywhere in the code.

For info on how to use these auto-generated classes, refer to its documentation:
- Custom row classes: https://drift.simonbinder.eu/docs/advanced-features/custom_row_classes/
